# 2023_Pietroiusti_etal_ESDWater balance model and analysis scripts used in Pietroiusti et al. 2023 Lake Victoria flood attribution study "Possible role of anthropogenic climate change in the record-breaking 2020 Lake Victoria levels and floods" (submitted).## Description ### lakevic-eea-wbmlakevic-eea-wbm contains the water balance model component of the analysis, and can be run from the main WBM_model.py script. WBM_settings.py acts as a namelist and should be modified to run the model under different scenarios and forcings, WBM_inicon.py initiates constants in the model, WBM_inigeom.py imports shapefiles and geoinformation about Lake Victoria and the basin.The water balance model is based on the MATLAB version developed in Vanderkelen et al. 2018, HESS, "Modelling the water balance of Lake Victoria".### lakevic-eea-scriptslakevic-eea-scripts contains the analysis scripts.Scripts are divided into sections which correspond to the different sections of the analysis in the paper (0 preprocessing, 1 analysis of observational precipitation data, 2 lake levels analysis and interpolation, 3 event definition, 4 evaluation of the WBM, 5 analysis of WB drivers, 6 GCM evaluation, 7 statistical fits for attribution and synthesis results)### Data availability All data necessary to run the WBM is provided in this GitHub repository (lakevic-eea-wbm/input-data/), except for precipitation input data, which is available publicly, through databases detailed in the manuscript and whose location should be specified in WBM_settings.py. All data included in this repo is also archived in Zenodo: https://zenodo.org/record/8233523## VersionVersion November 2023